---
layout: post
title: Research 
cover: path.jpg
date:   2017-01-05
categories: posts
---
## Areas of Research
My research is based in numerical methods for neutral particle transport
(solving the Boltzmann transport equation) with an emphasis on
high performance computing. These methods are often inspired by the physics of
the problem at hand, developments in computer hardware, or both.


I apply these methods to reactor design, shielding, and
nuclear security and nonproliferation. 

<a name="top">

In particular, my research group works on 
- [Deterministic solver methods](#deterministic)
- [Hybrid methods](#hybrid) (using deterministic results to accelerate Monte Carlo)
- [Metahueristic optimization](#meta) algorithms
- [Applications](#apps) in reactor design, shielding, and nuclear security and
nonproliferation
- [Monte Carlo](#mc) on advanced architectures (e.g. GPUs and MICs)
- [Nonclassical](#nonclass) neutron transport
- [Scientific software](#software) development

### <a name="deterministic">Deterministic Solver Methods
We study methods for the deterministic solution of the transport equation (using
mathematical rules and discretized phase space) such as eigenvalue acceleration
methods, parallelization strategies, Lagrange Discrete Ordinates, and the finite
element method.

[Index](#top)


### <a name="hybrid"> Hybrid Methods
We study how to use coarse deterministic solutions to speed up Monte Carlo
solutions (where you use random numbers to sample continuous physics to build
solutions). We are currently looking at this for problems with strong
anisotropies like gaps where radiation can stream readily. 

[Index](#top)


### <a name="meta">Metaheuristic Optimization Algorithms
We have developed an algorithm that performs metaheuristic optimization to
design energy tuning assemblies. The algorithm combines many optimization
strategies to solve a single objective, non-linear, constrained, continuous 
and discrete multi-modal optimization problem. 

We often want specific neutron energy spectra for various purposes such as
medical treatment, nuclear data investigation, or nuclear forensics, but are
limited to the energy spectra we can easily produce. Our optimization code
automatically designs a material stack up, given a variety of constraints, to
produce the spectrum of interest.

[Index](#top)


### <a name="apps">Applications 
We perform analysis for systems things like shielding casks, molten salt
reactors, pressurized water reactors, and source detection.

[Index](#top)


### <a name="mc">Monte Carlo
GPUs have the potential to greatly enhance calculation speeds for Monte Carlo
calculations. However, the process of conducting Monte Carlo for neutral
particle transport on GPUs is not straightforward. We are developing a code,
WARP, to do just this and there are a variety of remaining challenges in terms
of methods, implementation, and studying impact.

[Index](#top)


### <a name="nonclass">Nonclassical Transport
In classical particle transport, the probability that a particle interacts with
the background medium is proportional to the path length traveled by that
particle, and the proportionality constant depends on the density of the medium
and on the particle's energy. This typically leads to an exponential attenuation
law, i.e. the particle flux decreases as an exponential function of the path
length (Beer-Lambert law). In certain inhomogeneous random systems, however, a
nonexponential attenuation law arises due to spatial correlations between the
fuel pebbles in the core. We develop methods to study nonclassical solvers in 1, 2, and 3 dimensions.

[Index](#top)


### <a name="software">Scientific Software Development
PyNE is an open source Python library for Nuclear Engineering
([http://pyne.io/](http://pyne.io/),
[https://github.com/pyne/pyne](https://github.com/pyne/pyne)). There are a variety of projects that are often
changing. My group occasionally contributes things to PyNE, like a collection of
spatial solvers or a Bateman Equation solver. 

[Index](#top)

